meeting-transcript.md:103:> Chair Fontes:  Good morning.  Before we begin, I'd just like to make sure that those who are on the phone who are committee members, if they could identify themselves.
meeting-transcript.md:105:> Member McGinnis:  Doug McGinnis from Exelon.
meeting-transcript.md:107:> Member Hatfield:  Dale Hatfield, University of Colorado.
meeting-transcript.md:109:> Member Feldman:  Molly Feldman, Verizon Wireless.
meeting-transcript.md:111:> Member Stancil:  Dan Stancil, NC State.
meeting-transcript.md:113:> Chair Fontes:  If we could only have the members themselves identify themselves, please.
meeting-transcript.md:115:> Asst. Sec. Strickling:  Only the committee members, please.
meeting-transcript.md:117:> Member Reaser:  Yes.  This is Rick Reaser at Raytheon.  I was wondering if you could ask everyone who is, like, on the phone call to mute when they're not talking, just as a courtesy.
meeting-transcript.md:119:> Chair Fontes:  That would be helpful.  Is that all of the committee members on the call?
meeting-transcript.md:121:> Member Donovan:  David Donovan with the New York State Broadcasters.
meeting-transcript.md:123:> Chair Fontes:  Thanks.  Great.  I believe we have all the committee members identified who are on the call.  I'd just like to go around the table if we could just to identify ourselves so the folks that are on the call will know what committee member --
meeting-transcript.md:127:> Chair Fontes:  Who is this?  I'm sorry.
meeting-transcript.md:131:> Chair Fontes:  Okay.  I'm not really sure what's going on with the audio here, but if we can just go around and introduce ourselves.
meeting-transcript.md:133:> Member McHenry:  Mark McHenry with Shared Spectrum Company.
meeting-transcript.md:135:> Member Obuchowski:  Janice Obuchowski at FTI.
meeting-transcript.md:137:> Member Povelties:  Carl Povelites, AT&T.
meeting-transcript.md:139:> Member Rush:  Charles Rush, CMR Consulting.
meeting-transcript.md:141:> Member Tramont:  Bryan Tramont, Wilkinson Barker.
meeting-transcript.md:143:> Member Borth:  Dave Borth, University of Illinois and independent consultant.
meeting-transcript.md:145:> Mr. Nebbia:  Karl Nebbia, NTIA.
meeting-transcript.md:147:> Chair Fontes:  Brian Fontes, CSMAC.
meeting-transcript.md:149:> Asst. Sec. Strickling:  Larry Strickling, NTIA.
meeting-transcript.md:151:> Mr. Power:  Tom Power, Office of Science and Technology Policy.
meeting-transcript.md:153:> Member Warren:  Jennifer Warren, Lockheed Martin.
meeting-transcript.md:155:> Member Dombrowsky:  Tom Dombrowsky, Wiley Rein.
meeting-transcript.md:157:> Member Furchtgott-Roth:  Harold Furchtgott-Roth, Furchtgott-Roth Economics.
meeting-transcript.md:159:> Member Gibson:  Mark Gibson, Comsearch.
meeting-transcript.md:161:> Member Kahn:  Kevin Kahn, Intel.
meeting-transcript.md:163:> Chair Fontes:  Great.  Again, I'd just like to remind those who are on the call if they're not speaking to put the phone on mute, that will help everybody who is participating on the phone and here in person.
meeting-transcript.md:169:> Asst. Sec. Strickling:  Thank you, Brian.  I'll be quick.  I just want to welcome everyone here today.  I just want to tell those of you who felt that CSMAC wasn't working hard enough, who felt that you weren't working on the most relevant issues, that you weren't getting your name in the headlines, we've listened to you, and today I'm actually quite excited to have Karl roll out today what I hope will be a very exciting new work effort under the auspices of CSMAC to really take on, in a serious and intensive way, this question of facilitating sharing between commercial and agency spectrum operations.
meeting-transcript.md:175:> Mr. Power:  Thanks, Larry, and good morning.  I really just wanted to thank you all and congratulate you all for rolling up your sleeves and getting down to this important business of figuring out how the commercial industry and federal users can share the 1755 band.
meeting-transcript.md:187:> Asst. Sec. Strickling:  But in your case, it's --
meeting-transcript.md:189:> Mr. Power:  But really because exclusive access, if nothing else, brings you certainty.  It's just a little bit easier to deal when you know you only have yourself to worry about and that's a good thing.  And whether you're trying to plan to protect our training for our pilots, or got unnamed vehicles in the air, or tracks of your weather, or how to invest and build broadband networks to satisfy the skyrocketing consumer demand for broadband, it sort of gives you a good thing.
meeting-transcript.md:201:> Chair Fontes:  If we could ask you to put your phone on mute, please.
meeting-transcript.md:203:> Mr. Power:  I usually like hearing myself talk.
meeting-transcript.md:207:> Mr. Power:  I don't want to give short shrift to the needs on the commercial side either though and how those needs can best be accommodated in the band, as commercial providers figure out how to deploy their networks, and work around, and coexist with the federal users.
meeting-transcript.md:213:> Chair Fontes:  Thank you, Tom.  Thank you, Larry.  I also want to thank all of those who are in attendance today, particularly the committee members, for their continued work through this whole process, and we'll talk about that at the very end.
meeting-transcript.md:219:> Mr. Nebbia:  Thank you very much, Brian.  This morning, I'll be doing a couple things.  The first aspect that I wanted to go over was to give you some feedback on our 1755-1850 report.  If you'll recall at our last meeting, the report was not yet available and it came out shortly thereafter, I think, and so some of you may have been on vacation, you may have missed it, so I thought I'd give you a brief summary of where we were.
meeting-transcript.md:275:> Chair Fontes:  Any questions for Karl?
meeting-transcript.md:279:> Mr. Nebbia:  It was a good read wasn't it?  Okay.  So we're going to move on to my presentation on where we would like to go at this point.  And in considering how we might be able to bring government and industry together, it was important for us to provide a framework where people could work on technical issues, where they could dialogue back and forth, where they could breakout the parts of the work into more workable pieces, bite-size pieces, and then to come to some result that we could ultimately use in our ongoing dialogue with the commission regarding the re-purposing of the spectrum.
meeting-transcript.md:301:> So we'll look for as many answers as we can get today, but obviously, this may be a new idea, and therefore, we'd be happy to give you a few days to consider that.  Yes, Mr. Rush.
meeting-transcript.md:303:> Member Rush:  Charlie Rush here.  One very obvious question in my mind is, if we're to undertake a detailed analysis of the potential for sharing, it would make sense that we're going to have to do some sharing analyses.  Who, in your mind, is going to be responsible for doing that?
meeting-transcript.md:307:> Mr. Nebbia:  We're certainly looking for a cooperative effort between all of the participants in the group.  We will be using, as the beginning point, the reports that we've drafted, or written.  So, for instance, the fast track report captures information about the weather satellite uses in the 1695-1710.
meeting-transcript.md:337:> Member Kahn:  So if we want to suggest other people from our own company into this process, is it best to simply go to that external process or should we route it internally, somehow, through you?
meeting-transcript.md:339:> Mr. Nebbia:  Your way would work fine for us, but if you want, Bruce is pulling in, certainly, other names, but, you know, if you called me one day and said, I got a person to suggest, I certainly would be happy to take the suggestion.  Yes, ma'am.
meeting-transcript.md:341:> Member Warren:  Sorry.  Jennifer Warren.
meeting-transcript.md:343:> Mr. Nebbia:  Can we pull the microphone over closer to her?
meeting-transcript.md:345:> Member Warren:  If also, we have members who have different technology that fall into different groups, would you be interested in people covering those different areas?  So if we have engineers that develop different systems that might be in the five different working groups --
meeting-transcript.md:347:> Mr. Nebbia:  Right.
meeting-transcript.md:349:> Member Warren:   -- you're interested in that kind of expertise spread out?  Okay.
meeting-transcript.md:351:> Mr. Nebbia:  And in fact, numerically, the groups we're looking to be represented is we certainly believe that the service providers need to be involved.  Some of them may have, you know, major interest, some of them may have rural interest, so we want to get a mix of service providers.
meeting-transcript.md:437:> Member Tramont:  Bryan Tramont, so we have a July meeting already slated, and probably another, like, a September and then a January, and have, sort of, iterative presentations from each of the working groups at those three meetings, with potential, some final reports in September and others in January?  Is that the lineup?
meeting-transcript.md:439:> Mr. Nebbia:  That's certainly my hope, yes.
meeting-transcript.md:441:> Member Gibson:  Mark Gibson.  You mentioned that two of the existing working groups will go into stasis, but what about the others?  Are you expecting reports from the, what is my working group, Spectrum Management Improvements on License?
meeting-transcript.md:443:> Chair Fontes:  At the end of this there are, I believe, a couple of additional products that are going to be produced.
meeting-transcript.md:445:> Member Gibson:  Okay.  One other question related to the work plan, in the framework, you mentioned issues with classified data, would those be surfaced in the ongoing discussions or do you want to service them at some point beforehand?
meeting-transcript.md:447:> Mr. Nebbia:  Yes.  I think they are going to get surfaced as the discussions go on.  My experience thus far is that classified information, generally, does not have to be brought into the mix here.  We may find that that's not the case, but generally, I think that that is the case.
meeting-transcript.md:467:> Chair Fontes:  Karl?
meeting-transcript.md:469:> Member Povelties:  I'm glad to see this work effort start and really happy to see that we're looking at relocation in addition to sharing.  I was wondering if, as part of the review, you were also going to look at some of the cost estimates that were provided and determine how accurate or inaccurate those may be?
meeting-transcript.md:471:> Mr. Nebbia:  Ultimately, the firming up of cost estimates is part of a formal process under the CSEA that we went through in the last go around.  And you can look back on the history there and you'll find, for instance, that in about 2001, we gave estimates, somewhere, about $900 million, and that actually, the outcome today is closer to $1-1/2 billion.
meeting-transcript.md:481:> Chair Fontes:  Charles.
meeting-transcript.md:483:> Member Rush:  Thank you.  Charles Rush.  I have a couple questions that are probably getting into the details and you may not want to, you know, address them here, but I think they may be worthwhile, at least, giving some thought to.
meeting-transcript.md:491:> Mr. Nebbia:  That's an excellent question, Charlie, and as we indicated at 1695, we did an estimate working with the commission on what the environment might look like, but we think that estimate can probably be improved.
meeting-transcript.md:497:> Chair Fontes:  Janice.
meeting-transcript.md:499:> Member Obuchowski:  I'd like to associate myself and partner with Charlie's observation and tie it to, I think, a somewhat thorny question.  So we all operate in good faith, we have an assumed set of parameters for the commercial partners in the band, we come up with some reasonable sharing approaches, what is the guarantee that when the FCC takes up its commercial band param we're sharing, that it's implying the same architecture?
meeting-transcript.md:505:> Mr. Nebbia:  Well, I mean, we're certainly looking in these two particular bands for how they might be made available for commercial wireless, and that's our focus here.
meeting-transcript.md:511:> Member Calabrese:  Something to add to Charlie's question is under the, you know, increasingly we see, even among, I think, some of the carriers, you know, very recently, much more of a move towards microcells, small cells, lower power.
meeting-transcript.md:517:> Mr. Nebbia:  Well, I think we certainly see lots of possibilities here.  We'll be looking for industry to represent those possibilities as opposed to us trying to put a construct over it.  So we'll be looking for them to come in, they have a sense of what their financial base is, and so on.
meeting-transcript.md:521:> Member Warren:  Jennifer Warren.  I just want to continue the thread that's begun here because I appreciate what you're saying about you won't be directing it, NTIA won't be directing it, but it does seem to go back to the original question that there needs to be a common input to all the different working groups, and that that is the, you know, precursor to, then, those discussions in each of the working groups, so that they're all working on the same, almost the same, band, so the same approach.
meeting-transcript.md:529:> Chair Fontes:  A whole series of questions.
meeting-transcript.md:531:> Member Warren:  Sorry.
meeting-transcript.md:533:> Mr. Nebbia:  You know, let me just --
meeting-transcript.md:535:> Member Povelties:  It's all a slice as part of this search for 500, that group, working group, there was some technical characteristics put into that.  The suggestion may be that that would be a baseline and then the working groups could then look at that and see if it needs to be modified based on other things, such as what Mike was saying with the small cells.
meeting-transcript.md:537:> Mr. Nebbia:  Yes, sir.
meeting-transcript.md:539:> Member Tramont:  You're probably going to say what I'm going -- this is Brian Tramont, I would just say that, obviously it's important when you're naming the people to each of the groups that we have representative samples across all different commercial models so that each can calibrate.
meeting-transcript.md:547:> Member Kahn:  Kevin Kahn.  Realistically, there's not a whole lot of different standards being pushed right now.  I mean, there's been enough coalescence around standards directions that I think, you know, while we can hypothesize anything, there's really, you know, only a couple, and they're not much different from one another, the ones that are actually in development.
meeting-transcript.md:557:> Member Rush:  I tend to agree with what Michael said and with what Jennifer said, and I'm sorry Brian, I have to disagree with you because I think that if everybody comes in with their own little nuance, what we're going to have is a very, very dissected viewpoint of, you know, what the shared environment is going to be.
meeting-transcript.md:573:> Mr. Nebbia:  Well, once again, I think, obviously, there does need to be a coming together on the industry side as to what represents that.  We would certainly have to have, I think, another discussion here whether we would intentionally setup a group to specifically do that.
meeting-transcript.md:593:> Member Gibson:  Yes, it's Mark Gibson again.  I've been listening to what Kevin, and Charlie, and others have said, it reminds me, going back to, you know, the '80s or '90s when we did work at sharing between PCS and microwave, we only really had one paradigm, that being microwave systems and a class of mobile systems.
meeting-transcript.md:605:> Chair Fontes:  Are there other questions?  Karl?
meeting-transcript.md:607:> Mr. Nebbia:  Are you asking if I have another question?
meeting-transcript.md:609:> Chair Fontes:  Yes.  Any questions of Karl, then I want to find out if you have any last-minute comments.  Great.  I think the questions that Charlie raised and Michael raised are important questions to at least consider to begin this process.
meeting-transcript.md:631:> Mr. Nebbia:  Can I just --
meeting-transcript.md:633:> Chair Fontes:  Sure.
meeting-transcript.md:635:> Mr. Nebbia:  So in closing, what I would appreciate is if you are interested in being the liaison for one of these groups, and once again, it's critical that we have a CSMAC member on each of the groups, if you could, please, either see me after the meetings here, I'll be around for a little while, or send an email to Bruce Washington and say, you know, you would like to do that, and which group you would like to do that for.
meeting-transcript.md:639:> Chair Fontes:  Great.  I'd just like to go over a couple of other things.  First off, since we last met, the search for 500 MHZ committee, the co-chairs, Karl and Gary, Gary has resigned, as we all know.  He's taken the position at the FCC.  All of us appreciate the work that Gary has done.  I know Karl appreciates the opportunity to have worked with him.
meeting-transcript.md:647:> Member Gibson:  Well, what we did from the last working group discussion, the one in Stanford, is, we began to look at the comments you had on the recommendations we made, because I think the only ones that were on the table at the time were the ones we made before that meeting, which I think were the ones in November.
meeting-transcript.md:655:> Chair Fontes:  Well, clearly, I think the report that's nearly done --
meeting-transcript.md:657:> Member Gibson:  Yes.
meeting-transcript.md:659:> Chair Fontes:  -- we can present that in July.  And in terms of the time schedules that Karl has presented, and I know that they're coming upon us already, we may want to also take a look at the functions of these groups and see how many of those working group members are actively engaged in the others, and then, at that point, judge whether or not all of these are put on hiatus.
meeting-transcript.md:661:> Member Tramont:  Might I propose that -- Bryan Tramont, sorry.  Might I propose that the committee co-chairs come back to you within the next ten days or something with a proposal about what they think they should wrap up come July and then what they think is still viable to keep going on or not, because it may be very distinct to each committee that certain things are in different parts of the work plan.
meeting-transcript.md:665:> Chair Fontes:  Right.  And some of the work is in progress already.
meeting-transcript.md:667:> Member Tramont:  Yes, exactly.
meeting-transcript.md:669:> Chair Fontes:  So we may be able to just wrap that up.
meeting-transcript.md:671:> Member Gibson:  And one point I had to what Bryan was saying is that, we might that, through the work we're doing with the new work plan, we may circle some of, at least, the late issues back into the, you know, various systems and services where we can have them.  Implicit in some of that is going to be the availability of data.
meeting-transcript.md:675:> Chair Fontes:  I also appreciate the process where we worked on specific questions.  I think it allowed responses to those questions to move forward in a timely fashion rather than waiting to an end report.  So I think that has been a very productive model for us to follow.
meeting-transcript.md:679:> Member Calabrese:  I don't know about comments, but, you know, I think what Bryan suggested would be good, that we need to huddle.  You know, at the Stanford meeting, we were complete on the initial interference questions that we had gone through.  We had some things in mind to move on to, but we also had wanted to consult, I think again, with Karl about what would be most productive in the current context.
meeting-transcript.md:685:> Chair Fontes:  Great.  Perfect.  Thank you.  The next item on the agenda is the schedule of our next meeting.  This is going to be schedule in Boulder, Colorado on July 24th.  It's in the afternoon.  So some of the folks from the East Coast who are flying in, you'll be able to fly out that morning and save a little bit of time on your schedules.
meeting-transcript.md:689:> Mr. Nebbia:  Just one thing to recognize, the ISART meeting at ITS is going to be held the following two days after our meeting and it will be oriented around spectrum sharing.  So it'll be a timely discussion and so just keep that in mind when you make your plans.
meeting-transcript.md:691:> Chair Fontes:  Great.  I want to thank everyone then for the opportunity of being here today.  And at this point, the meeting is adjourned.
meeting-transcript.md:693:> Mr. Snider:  I have a question.  I didn't see any public participation on the schedule.  That would be almost unprecedented as far as I know.  It should be precedent.  Last three meetings, as you know, you essentially threatened to significantly reduce or eliminate public comments.
meeting-transcript.md:699:> Chair Fontes:  Sure.  For the purpose of today's meeting, this is basically an information meeting about what the approach will be for the CSMAC over the next, what, seven months.  And to just kind of go through the outline of how the working groups will be structured and so forth.
meeting-transcript.md:705:> Mr. Snider:  So just to clarify, there is no intended policy of eliminating public comments, especially on procedural issues?  Because that was coming up again and again.
meeting-transcript.md:707:> Chair Fontes:  That is correct.
meeting-transcript.md:709:> Mr. Snider:  Okay.  Great.  Thank you.
meeting-transcript.md:711:> Chair Fontes:  Any last comments from the members of the committee?  I want to thank you for your time today.  I encourage your participation and again, the meeting is adjourned.  Thank you.